President Obama:
This was a week for honoring
the extraordinary service and
profound sacrifice of our
men and women in uniform.
Every fall, we set aside a
special day to pay tribute
to our veterans.
But this year, Veteran's Day
took on even greater poignancy
and meaning because of the
tragic events at Fort Hood.
On Tuesday, I traveled there
to join with the Fort Hood
community, the Army, and the
friends and families of the
victims to honor thirteen of our
fellow Americans who died - and
the dozens more who were wounded
- not on some distant shore,
but on a military base at home.
Every man and woman who signs
up for military service does so
with full knowledge of the
dangers that could come - that
is part of what makes the
service of our troops and
veterans so extraordinary.
But it's unthinkable that so
many would die in a hail of
gunfire on a US Army base
in the heart of Texas,
and that a fellow service-member
could have pulled trigger.
There is an ongoing
investigation into
this terrible tragedy.
That investigation will look
at the motives of the alleged
gunman, including his
views and contacts.
As I said in Fort Hood, I am
confident that justice will be
done, and I will insist
that the full story be told.
That is paramount, and I won't
compromise that investigation
today by discussing
the details of this case.
But given the potential warning
signs that may have been known
prior to these shootings,
we must uncover what steps,
if any, could have been
taken to avert this tragedy.
On the Thursday evening that
this tragedy took place,
I met in the Oval Office with
Secretary of Defense Gates,
the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff - Admiral Mullen,
and FBI Director Mueller to
review the immediate steps that
were necessary to support the
families and secure Fort Hood.
The next morning, I met with the
leadership of our military and
the intelligence community, and
ordered them to undertake a full
review of the sequence of events
that led up to the shootings.
The purpose of this review is
clear: We must compile every
piece of information that
was known about the gunman,
and we must learn what was
done with that information.
Once we have those facts,
we must act upon them.
If there was a failure to take
appropriate action before the
shootings, there must
be accountability.
Beyond that - and most
importantly - we must quickly
and thoroughly evaluate and
address any flaws in the system,
so that we can prevent a similar
breach from happening again.
Our government must be able to
act swiftly and surely when it
has threatening information.
And our troops must have the
security that they deserve.
I know there will also be
inquiries by Congress,
and there should.
But all of us should resist the
temptation to turn this tragic
event into the political theater
that sometimes dominates the
discussion here in Washington.
The stakes are far too high.
Of all the responsibilities
of the presidency,
the one that I weigh most
heavily is my duty as
Commander-in-Chief to our
splendid service-men and women.
Their character and bravery
were on full display in that
processing center at Fort Hood,
when so many scrambled under
fire to help their
wounded comrades.
And their great dignity and
decency has been on display in
the days since, as the Fort Hood
community has rallied together.
We owe our troops prayerful,
considered decisions about when
and where we commit them to
battle to protect our security
and freedom, and we must
fully support them when
they are deployed.
We also owe them the absolute
assurance that they'll be safe
here at home as they prepare
for whatever mission may come.
As Commander-in-Chief, I won't
settle for anything less.
This nation will never forget
the service of those we lost at
Fort Hood, just as we will
always honor the service of
all who wear the uniform of
the United States of America.
Their legacy will be an America
that is safer and stronger -
an America that reflects the
extraordinary character of the
men and women who serve it.
Thank you.